We wanna make this thing actually work.
And to make this actually work,
we need a way to keep track of
the items that are in the cart.
So in a standard web app you
would have the whole thing is
gonna be built of components.
All of those components are hydrated
as JavaScript, you're running a lot of
JavaScript, so everything on the page is
powered by JavaScript and you'll have in
React like a provider or in other
frameworks, a global store or something.
And that becomes available to all the
components in a way that's sort of built
into the framework.
Now in Astro, because we're
individually hydrating these pieces,
we can't put the store in a provider and
then just grab out of the way you would
and react with a use X hook, right?
So instead we have to figure out a way to
keep the store external to the components
themselves, but still be usable and
updatable within the components.
So that might sound I was very
intimidating to me when I first thought
about this cuz I was like, there's no way
this is gonna be, this is gonna be a mess.
This was honestly the first
part where I was like, well,
this is where Astro is gonna fall down,
right?
And then I got this wonderful,
wonderful demo.
I'm not gonna show the demo, but
I'm going to give a link to the demo.
Because it was absolutely wonderful.
Aryan Deora came on Learn with Jason and
did this demo of sharing state
between multiple frameworks in Astro.
It's so good.
If you wanna see a perfectly
executed demo, watch this.
The TanStack team, Arian and
then I had Dominic,
TK Dodo on the show as well.
Absolutely outstanding, both times,
just incredible, incredible demos.
Let me find Dominic's as well,
this one here.
This is a team that makes wonderful demos.
So good, good, good people to check out.
And this particular demo
is where I realized, wait,
Astro can actually do all these things
that I was really worried it couldn't do.
So we're gonna use a riff on
what Aryan showed using a tool
called Nano Stores to share
state between our solid cart and
our React add to cart button.
So to do that, we first, well,
let's talk a little bit about
why Nano Stores because there
are a lot of things we could use.
A lot of different state
management things are out there.
We could try to put it in local storage.
We could try to put it in session storage.
We could store some, I mean,
maybe we could put it in cookies.
Who knows?
We Could reach for TanStack because the TanStack
Query is framework agnostic now.
We could reach for
a handful of other tools that I've seen
out there that are all very
good in different use cases.
What I like about Nano Stores and the
reason that I'm reaching for it now, and
let me pull up the page for it,
I guess while I'm talking about it.
So, Nano Stores is 313 Bytes.
It does exactly one thing,
and it does it very well,
and it's intentionally simple.
And for the use case that we have,
which is to keep track of one array,
this is the right tool for the job.
We don't need any of
the advanced query invalidation.
We don't need syncing between states.
There's nothing intense happening here.
We just need a list, right?
And for that, and for a lot of use cases,
really if you break down state to
what it actually is, it's usually
just one value, a list of values.
And a lot of times,
we don't need the extra features.
So my general working decision
process here is I'll look and
see, can I do this in Nano Stores?
And if I find myself writing a lot of
custom code to make Nano Stores do it,
I'll reach for TanStack Query.
Because TanStack Query is great when you
need things like cache invalidation and
query sharing and
all these really advanced pieces.
The most of the state that I'm
creating does just doesn't do that,
it's not really necessary.
So again, choose the right tool for
the job and
you're gonna have a lot less
maintenance to do later.
So, Nano Stores is wonderful for this.
It has its teeny tiny, it has
a really small API, and the only real
trade off of using Nano Stores Is that
as part of not shipping a lot of code,
they don't have things that might
seem intuitive like a delete option.
You have to set a key to
undefined to delete it, right?
So there's a little bit of like,
that was a weird choice.
But when you think about it 313 bytes is,
you don't have a lot of room,
you add a delete method and suddenly
your library's doubled in size, right?
[LAUGH] So it's very much like
they chose sparseness over size.
Which makes it a great decision for
this very simple use case
that we are doing today.
So to actually use it,
we're going to head over here and
I'm gonna open up my terminal cuz
we're gonna install something.
So I'm going to install NPM,
install Nano Stores.
And then we're going to
need both the React and
solid adopters for Nano Stores.
And it didn't do something.
I'm using the wrong version of node.
I meant to be using 18.
Okay, so now that I'm using node 18,
I installed Nano Stores.
We've got the packages here and
they're available for us to use.
And we are now able to create our store.
So let me open this up.
I'm gonna create a new folder
in here called stores.
And then I'm gonna create a new file.
And we're going to call it cart.ts.
And the way that a cart works,
it's just a list.
All we need is a list of the things
that are in our cart and
a quantity of how many of
those things are there.
So I'm gonna grab two pieces computed
which we're not gonna use just yet, we'll
look at that in just a second, and map,
which is the thing that we need right now.
So, Nano Stores has, I think,
two or three baseline primitives.
And the first one is an atom,
which is like a value,
like what you would do with useState.
So you set an atom to a value of 0 and
that's your counter, right?
And then you can also use a map.
And a map is an object more or less.
That's really kind of the whole thing.
They've got an option for a deep map
if you wanna do a little bit more, but
through the vast majority of use cases
I've run into you can get away with a map
or an atom, and that's about all you need.
So we're going to set up our cart.
So we're gonna export a const called cart
and that is going to actually Nano Stores
started prefixing everything with $ sign,
so we're gonna do that so
keep with if you look at their
docs you'll see that everywhere.
And then we're gonna set up
a map with an empty object.
Now, I want auto-complete, so I'm gonna
write some really gnarly typescript.
Feel free to just skip this,
you can just write any here if you want.
But I'm gonna set this up as a record, and
then inside of it, the key is a number,
and a cart item, which is defined already,
is available there.
What did I do?
I'm missing a closing bracket,
there we go.
Okay, so what we're saying here is that
our map consists of a record that includes
a number as a key and a cart item as
a value and that'll give us autocomplete.
The reason I'm using a number as a key
is that the cart items that we have
are coming in with a numeric ID,
just starting at zero and counting.
And that's it.
That's the whole store.
We'll be able to function from there.
So, to add items to the cart,
we could define this elsewhere, but
we're just gonna put it all on this file,
and make it so
that we're exporting
utilities right there.
So, I'm going to export a function
called addItemToCart,
and this is going to accept an item,
which is a shop item.
And that's gonna be coming outta the API,
so that we've got the ability to,
again, we just want auto complete to work,
so, I want a cart item const and
that is going to be,
we're gonna use the cart itself.
And we're gonna try to
get our current item, so
we're checking if that item
is already in our cart.
And I need to add my dollar
sign because I did that.
So we're checking the store to see if
we already have this particular item in
the cart.
And the reason we're doing that
is because if we already have it,
we don't wanna add it again,
we wanna update its quantity.
Next, we're gonna set
the quantity of items.
And we do that by checking to
see if our cart item exists.
If so, we're gonna say the quantity
is the existing quantity,
otherwise, we'll set it to 0.
Then we're going to run $cart.setKey and
we pass in our item.id as the key.
And then it's gonna let
us auto complete here.
Or it's not.
We're gonna set an item.
And then we're gonna set in the quantity
to be the existing quantity plus one.
So, this way, we have either a new item
gets added with the quantity of one.
Or we override the original item
that has the the key of the item
ID with a new quantity of whatever
the original quantity is plus one.
So as we add, we're saying, give me one,
give me one more, give me one more,
and we're not ending up with a list on the
side of like the same product a bunch of
times.
And that is the whole
function to add item to cart.
And then we wanna do the same thing for
removing.
So we're gonna export a function
called removeItemFromCart.
And that one is going to get
just an item ID is all we need.
So that's a number and then we're
going to tell it to ts ignore it.
Because we're going to set
the value to undefined and
rather than wrestle with this record
to not yell when I set it to undefined,
we're just gonna, we know that
we're deleting the key, right?
So I'm going to cart, nope, right,
there's a dollar sign cart,
set key, and
then we set the item ID and undefined.
And that will remove
that item from the cart,
allowing us to now add and
remove things from our cart.
Okay, so
what else would we need in a cart?
The only other thing that we'll need
in this particular case is going to be
a subtotal.
We wanna compute how much the items add
up to in your cart for total price.
So we will export
something called subtotal.
And this is where we're gonna
use that computed thing.
So what computed means is we're going
to compute an additional store based on
the value of a different store.
And in our case,
what we wanna do is take the cart and
based on its values,
we want to give a new value.
We're coming up with something
derived from the $cart store.
And the way this works is we say computed
then we pass in the store that we want to
use as the trigger source.
So whenever the cart changes,
we want this subtotal to recalculate.
That's how we're identifying this here.
So we take the cart and
then we get the entry.
So whatever's in the cart right now or
in the store right now,
we can then do some math.
So we're gonna take our subtotal,
start it at 0, and
then I'm going to get
the values out of our entries.
So because it's an object, right?
We've got the ID and then the items,
but I wanna loop over it.
So I'm just gonna get the values,
which just gives me my list of items.
So I'm gonna get my entries and
then for each, I'm gonna get an entry.
And I want to make sure it exists.
So if it's not there,
we can bail on it and
just return, we'll skip that one entirely.
Otherwise, we're going to increment
the subtotal by the entry quantity
multiplied by the entry item price.
And so this is rough math,
we're not calculating taxes,
we're not doing discounts.
So there's a lot more
complexity that can and
probably will in a high traffic web store.
But for the defaults, if you just
wanna get something off the ground,
this is pretty great.
As far as simplicity goes, and then at the
end, we just wanna return that subtotal.
And so now,
we have the ability to get our cart.
We can add an item to it,
we can remove an item to it, and
we can figure out how much
the total cost of the cart is.
And that is all the dynamic functionality
that we should need in terms of
interacting with our cart.